>> Will Sentance: There's
our user creator function,
notice no creating an object inside of it.
No making a bond to some shared store or
functions, no returning an object out.
Because we're gonna run that
function with the help of the new,
we can call that a modifier.
It alters the behavior of the user
creator execution context,
it's gonna insert stuff in there
automatically for us when we run it.
But hold on, we need a shared store
of functions one, copper one.
What do you say,
one save version of those functions.
How are we gonna make sure
we have a bond to them?
Well, it turns out that user
creator function is also an object,
function object combo.
That's what a function is, we just don't
talk about the object but most the time.
And its object bit has
a property called prototype into
which we're going to store and
increment method.
Let's go through people,
here we go folk line by line.
Jeff, if you don't mind taking it away
actually with a full kind of complete
description as global memory.
Jeff, complete description of what
we're doing in that very first line
more than just declaring a function,
right?
What are we doing?
>> Speaker 2: We're creating
a label called user creator.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic,
it's a function definition stored it, but
what else?
>> Speaker 2: That
implicitly has an object.
>> Will Sentance: I don't mind
the word implicit there, yeah,
it has it is a function object combo,
as I like to call it.
There it is, it has both a function
declaration, or function definition sorry,
that is the combination of
a function plus an object.
That is what we're doing when
we're defining a function.
We just don't talk about this thing most
of the time, but it's there, always.
Okay, now, we're not still quite done yet.
Adam, this object is not an empty object.
It's an object with, what property on it?
>> Will Sentance: What problem
is it how automatically towards?
>> Adam: Prototype.
>> Will Sentance: Prototype, and Adam,
what is that prototype property
got stored in it a big old?
>> Adam: Empty object.
>> Will Sentance: Empty object, so
this is literally what we're doing
in just our function definition.
We just don't talk about this
bit of it that often but
it's there, function, object combo.
And that object's got a property called
prototype which is itself a big old object
stored on it.
How do I get to this object?
Dan, what's my kind of words do I
write to get to the object here?
>> Dan: Creator.prototype.
>> Will Sentance: Usercreated.prototype,
and that's going to give me the object.
If I wanted to store something in
that object Dan, what would I write?
Usercreator-
>> Dan: .prototype.-
>> Will Sentance: Whatever the label would
be for that that exactly.
I'm afraid there we go.
Here we go on that note,
Dan, what are we doing here
because we're gonna use this object
like how use a function store was for
a single vert save
version of each function.
That we want any objects that
get returned from running
user creator to have access
to any stored function here.
And Dan, what are we gonna store taught
me through word by word by word,
the left to the right.
>> Dan: We're looking for user creator.
We're going to the prototype.
>> Will Sentance: Well,
I wouldn't use a prototype but
it sounds like something magical.
>> Dan: We're going to the-
>> Will Sentance: User creates object
version of itself, object part of itself
which we look for, what property on it?
>> Dan: Prototype-
>> Will Sentance: Absolutely,
which we find is a?
>> Dan: Empty object
>> Will Sentance: Thank goodness,
because what we try and
do next, we try to?
>> Dan: Create a new label increment.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic,
in that object-
>> Dan: And store a function.
>> Will Sentance: I honestly got to
say I know in order to do this in
this sort of recorded version, but
that deserves a round of applause.
Thank you, Dan.
That was very, very nice.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> Will Sentance: Nice from Dan.
Let's have Ethan do the next one here.
So looking up user creator, Ethan?
>> Ethan: Yes.
>> Will Sentance: Finding that
it's a function plus an object,
are we gonna access its function bit here,
or its object bit here?
>> Ethan: Object.
>> Will Sentance: Object bit,
using dot notation, and
it's got a property on the object called?
>> Ethan: Prototype.
>> Will Sentance: Which is itself,
thank goodness, an object,
because we're gonna try and
do what with that prototype object.
We're gonna try and assign it?
>> Ethan: And label login.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic, at the
property login and assign it a function,
a method.
Look at that, folks, look at that,
that such store of single
version of our functions.
Okay, good.
Now move down to the next line.
Braydon, left-hand side.
What's that saying?
Hold on, let me just do my left-hand side.
Braden, what to say to do?
>> Braydon: Don't declare
a constant user one.
>> Will Sentance: Declare
Do we know what to store in it, Braydon?
>> Braydon: Not just-
>> Will Sentance: We have no idea.
Do not ever look at that new key word and
think somehow user one this
is a different to a function.
What are we doing on the right-hand
side there, Brayden?
Hold the new for now,
what did you do in right-hand side?
>> Braydon: You're
calling the user creator
>> Will Sentance: We're calling,
we're executing, we're running
the user create function with Prince.
Nothing magic, nothing different,
nothing object,
is just literally call user creator.
With a special three-letter word in
front that's gonna do a ton of stuff
inside user creator's execution context.
All right, so for now,
our user1 is, Brayden?
>> Braydon: Uninitialized.
>> Will Sentance: Uninitialized,
yeah, perfect.
All right, here we go.
This is the final, final piece, people.
Okay, user creator, I'm gonna use blue for
my stuff that new does.
So there's our new, calling,
just as usual, calling the function.
Just with a slight little change,
in terms of what it's gonna do
inside the execution context.
It's gonna automate a ton of stuff
inside that execution context.
Calling userCreator with Eva, and 9.
I think it's almost our
last chance to do this.
It's a brand, it's a brand new?
>> Speaker 2: Execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Execution context,
it sounds amazing.
There it is, it's a huge one.
There it is, I still,
one day I'll get good at that.
There it is, huge execution context.
Intuit you go, yep, Intuit we go,
and,
>> Will Sentance: In our local,
>> Will Sentance: Memory.
First, let's handle our
parameter argument combinations.
Peter, our,
inputs to this function, are what?
>> Peter: Eva-
>> Will Sentance: Let's do that one first.
Eva, and it's assigned to what parameter,
what placeholder inside the function?
>> Peter: Name.
>> Will Sentance: Name, exactly.
Don't think these are objects,
or properties, or by the way,
anything to do with new keyword that
is regular inputs for function.
The next one, Peter again?
>> Peter: Score is 9.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, score parameter
is the argument of the value 9.
That is like if we declare
the variables inside this function.
We could just write inside here,
I don't know, const name is Eva.
But we don't wanna make it so
non-general, [LAUGH] so inflexible.
We wanna be able to have it change
each time we run this function, okay?
That's, white pen down, blue pen time.
The whole point of this function, whatever
we're doing here is to create what,
Braydon?
>> Braydon: An object.
>> Will Sentance: An object.
Do we wanna have to manually declare
an object every time you do a function
that does this?
No, so what's our new key words?
First thing it's gonna do, Braydon?
>> Braydon: Assign empty object.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
declare and save in memory.
An empty object.
We wanna be able to get access so
we can stick stuff into it.
What is the label we've
given to access it, Braydon?
>> Braydon: This.
>> Will Sentance: This, exactly beautiful,
set this to empty object.
Beaituful.
All right.
But we will not object when it eventually
gets returned out into user one
to have access to our single
save version of the functions.
We want it to have access to remember,
our whole goal here.
So I can do this using
one little increments.
That's the only goal
of the whole workshop.
Is the icon have the functionality
that applies to that user one,
not all over the whole
100,000 lines of code, but
instead, right there on
our user one object.
Not being shared by all the quiz
questions in the league tables, no.
Right there, on our user1 object,
it's our only goal.
But know we can't have increment
function directly stored on that object,
we wanna have instead a link
through its proto reference to.
>> Will Sentance: this
shared store of functions.
And so Braydon, what do you think their
hidden proto property is going to link to?
Be very specific, exactly where?
>> Braydon: It's going to
link to the object part of
the user creator function
to the prototype property.
>> Will Sentance: Which is itself?
>> Braydon: An object.
>> Will Sentance: An object, full of
the functions that we've put in there.
Very, very, very nice there,
much appreciated by Braydon.
From Brayden there,
up to that object, fantastic.
Okay, now we're back to us.
So that's the second thing it does, set
proto to the function that's being run,
onto its prototype property of its object
version, which is itself an object.
So we set the proto to userCreate, or
whatever the function is, this has been
rather the new keyword .prototype.
This is all automated by
the new keyword for us.
This is looking pretty nice already,
right?
But now we've got to get some
actual specific data in.
Dan, to you
>> Dan: We run the line the stack name,
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic.
>> Dan: We add this in the local memory,
>> Will Sentance: Yeah.
>> Dan: And creates a new label
name signs that the name-
>> Will Sentance: I would say here,
because we don't wanna get confused
with our
>> Dan: Yeah.
>> Will Sentance: Variable names or
parameters, a new property name and
very unhelpfully chosen by me,
which is gonna be work, Dan?
>> Dan: The argument that was passed in.
>> Will Sentance: Which is?
Fantastic.
By the way, Dan your technical
communication is outstanding.
And then the next line?
>> Dan: Same thing but with score on this-
>> Will Sentance: The auto-created
object with the help of the new keyword,
which has got the label?
>> Dan: This.
>> Will Sentance: This, exactly, and
we go to it and we find,
does it have a score property?
>> Dan: No.
>> Will Sentance: No, so
we make it, there it is.
And we assigned to it, what, Dan?
>> Dan: 9.
>> Will Sentance: The value of our school
parameter which is the argument that
was policy which is 9, exactly.
Folk that is a pretty nice,
that's exactly what we want.
But it's stuck inside a function,
inside of our user creator,
and I'm looking at user creator I
don't see anything returned out.
What Mark, do you think is the last
thing that our new keyword automates?
>> Dan: Returning the this.
>> Will Sentance: Remember that,
returning this, exactly right.
Returning the object assigned to this,
keyword,
I like to do it in blue as well, right?
Because it's automatic,
returning it out into the global label.
This whole portion here evaluates
turns into the returned object, and
stored into what?
Into user1 with name,
it's funny that I've now changed
the color, is not helpful.
There we go, well, dear, yeah,
with our hidden proto property__proto
underscore which is a link
up to userCreator.product
this big object for the shared functions.
Okay, now execution context here,
stays or goes?
Goes, exactly, popped off the call stat.
We didn't show the call stat,
but it's deleted, and
now we do our all important check.
The only thing we really
cared about the whole time.
If can I do user1.increment.
And by the way people, this is why I'd
tell you solution two, did the job.
Solution three is just automating so much
of that job for us, which is fantastic.
But under the hood, it's exactly the same,
in terms of doing exactly the same stuff.
Yes, it has to make a few little changes.
We have to put all our functions in this
object, cuz we don't get it controlled.
So we better put it somewhere where
JavaScript knows they're gonna be.
We've got this as the label for
the object.
But otherwise, it's exactly the same.
Also, we can do this one thing.
Have our functions and data bundle
together for our ease of reasoning, but
we can't have the functions
literally on the object.
Otherwise, I've been copied on every
single user object, user one, user two,
user 500.
We waste memory space.
So instead, we have them in
one place single save version.
And the proto feature of Java
prototype will feature JavaScript.
It's proto property that
all objects have a.
We set it to link up to that object,
knowing that when JavaScript
runs user1.increment, and
does it fight well, let's see.
Todd, it's your moment.
User1 where do we look for it?
>> Todd: Global memory.
>> Will Sentance: Global memory,
is it there?
>> Todd: Yes.
>> Will Sentance: Yes, it is, increment.
We look on, well, you tell me?
>> Todd: Not there.
>> Will Sentance: [LAUGH] Good-
>> Todd: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: Queue one object,
not there.
Do we panic?
>> Todd: No.
>> Will Sentance: What does JavaScript do
automatically?
>> Todd: It'll take the proto,
it'll follow that up to the user creator
object, and the prototype property
in that object, and look in there.
>> Will Sentance: Absolutely outstanding,
and find?
>> Todd: Increment.
>> Will Sentance: Increment, and
then we take that code, and
we build an execution context.
Amazing, let's give Todd a hand,
very nice from Todd.
That for me is the hardest bit.
Excellent, people.
That's it, a new keyword has sold at least
some of our typing too much problem,
but my goodness,